---
title: Stripe OA
category: Blog
tags: 
  - Stripe
  - Company
---


### TechnicalPhoneScreenRound:Somesortoftransactionandfraudreporting
- phase one:
given a list of string of comma delimited values:<br>
(merchant, timestamp, amount, some unimportant metadata),<br>
parse the values and print out each transaction in chronological order<br>
注意timestamp不能直接用string compare

- phase two:
in addition to previous input, you are now given a list of fraud report:<br>
(timestamp, merchant) means that after a given timestamp we discovered that merchat is fraud and should be rejected
print out all transaction with their "Accepted"/"Rejected" state

- phase three:
Calculate sum of money lost to fraud (transaction is accepted but whose merchat later is discovered to be fraud)

### Onsite Coding Round: Bitmap character to image conversion
- Phase one: 
Given some bitmap lookup table, print out some letters in bitmap format.
I.E # This is an example bitmap of the letter "J"
```
0 0 0 0 1 0
0 0 0 0 1 0
0 0 0 0 1 0
0 0 0 0 1 0
0 0 0 0 1 0
0 0 0 0 1 0
1 0 0 0 1 0
0 1 1 1 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
```
- Phase 2
compression and decompression on the lookup table 是什麼意思? 
另外米不夠, 能大概說下 Integration 部分是遇到什麼題嗎? 謝謝

- Integration 部分就是读json call api
  
### Onsite System Design Round: Design an internal ledger API for account balance
需要记录transaction (money in)，payout (money out)，提供account balance

--------------------------------------------------

### subscription: 
- list of users {name, plan, begin_date, duration}，要求按顺序发email (plan当天发welcome, -15 days发upcoming expiration，
expire当天发expire)
- 第二问：基础上增加一个change in plans, list of changes {name, new_plan, change_date}<br>
- 第三问是bonus，第二问的基础上再加一个renew，change list中entry为 {name, extension, change_date}
```
例如：
users = [{name: A, plan: X, begin_date = 0, duration = 30}, {name: B, plan: Y, begin_date = 1, duration = 15}],
输出
0: [Welcome] A, subscribe in plan X
1: [Welcome] B, subscribe in plan Y
1: [Upcoming expiration] B, subscribe in plan Y
15: [Upcoming expiration] A, subscribe in plan X
16: [Expired] B, subcribe in plan Y
30: [Expired] A, subscribe in plan X

第二问例如：
users = [{name: A, plan: X, begin_date = 0, duration = 30}, {name: B, plan: Y, begin_date = 1, duration = 15}]
changes = [{name: A, new_plan: Y, change_date = 5}]
输出
0: [Welcome] A, subscribe in plan X
1: [Welcome] B, subscribe in plan Y
1: [Upcoming expiration] B, subscribe in plan Y
5: [C<!--googleoff: snippet--><div class="locked">
3: [Renewed] B, subscribe in plan Y<br>
5: [Changed] A, subscribe in plan Y<br>
15: [Upcoming expiration] A, subscribe in plan Y<br>
16: [Upcoming expiration] B, subcribe in plan Y<br>
30: [Expired] A, subscribe in plan Y<br>
30: Expired] B, subscribe in plan Y<br>
```


================================================


### Question: Catch Me If You Can

**Background**:
Stripe processes billions of dollars worth of transactions every day. As guardians of the Internet ecosystem, 
it is essential to ensure that legitimate merchants can safely transact with their customers, and that we quickly 
detect and block illegitimate or fraudulent activity. Stripe employs various machine learning models at scale, 
such as Radar, to detect fraudulent transactions as they come in. These models examine different variables about 
incoming transactions to determine their authenticity.

One input to examine is the outcome from credit card networks like Visa or Mastercard. These networks communicate 
with banks and provide response codes to reflect the outcomes of credit card transactions. Our goal is to develop 
a simple fraud detection model to determine if a merchant is fraudulent

**Part 1**:

Each Stripe merchant has an associated Merchant Consumer Code (MCC) specifying what kind of business the merchant 
operates. Certain businesses, such as airlines or event venues, are more risky than others, so there are different 
fraud tolerances for them.

We will use a basic algorithm to detect fraud: if a merchant is ever at or above a certain threshold of 
**total fraudulent transactions** (all thresholds are integers &gt; 1), they will be marked as fraudulent. Additionally, 
merchants will be marked as fraudulent **only after** we have seen at least a certain number of **total transactions** 
from them, to avoid marking them as fraudulent based on just the first couple of transactions.

**Input**:
- **Input 1**: A comma-separated list of codes that are **not** fraudulent.
- **Input 2**: A comma-separated list of codes that **are** fraudulent.
- **Input 3**: A table of MCCs and their corresponding fraud thresholds
- (each row separated by a newline, each column by a comma).
- **Input 4**: A table of merchants by account ID and their corresponding MCC.
- **Input 5**: The minimum number of transactions required to evaluate a merchant as fraudulent or not.
- **Input 6**: A table of charges formatted as:
```
CHARGE, charge_id, account_id, amount, code<br>
```

**Output**:

You will return a **lexicographically sorted comma-separated list** of merchants (by account ID) that are fraudulent.<br>

**Example**:
Input:
广告
```
"approved", "invalid_pin", "expired_card"
"do_not_honor", "stolen_card", "lost_card"
retail,5
airline,2
venue,3
acct_1,airline
acct_2,venue
acct_3,retail
0
CHARGE,ch_1,acct_1,100,do_not_honor
CHARGE,ch_2,acct_1,200,approved
CHARGE,ch_3,acct_1,300,do_not_honor
CHARGE,ch_4,acct_2,100,lost_card
CHARGE,ch_5,acct_2,200,lost_card
CHARGE,ch_6,acct_2,300,lost_card
CHARGE,ch_7,acct_3,100,lost_card
CHARGE,ch_8,acct_2,200,stacct_1
```

 ‍‌‌‌‍‌‍‌‌‍‌‍‍‌‍‌‍‍‌‍‌**Part 3**:<br>

Our fraud detection model is working well in the wild, but some merchants are disputing certain transactions marked as fraudulent by the credit card networks. We will now allow merchants to dispute transactions that were marked as fraudulent. If a merchant disputes a transaction and the dispute is accepted, the transaction will no longer count as fraudulent. Merchants can return to a non-fraudulent status if their ratio drops below the required threshold.<br>

Disputes will be provided as:
```
DISPUTE,charge_id
```
You will update the list of fraudulent merchants accordingly.



======================================================================

### This problem revolves around building a payment processing system that simulates Stripe's Payment Intents system. 
The system handles payment creation, attempts, completions, failures, and refunds, following a state machine model 
where payment intents go through different states (e.g., REQUIRES_ACTION, PROCESSING, and COMPLETED).

**Problem Summary**

Payment Intents: The system must manage "payment intents," which track the flow of payments from initiation to completion.
Payment intents can transition through different states:

- REQUIRES_ACTION: The payment is created but requires further actions.
- PROCESSING: The payment is being processed.
- COMPLETED: The payment is successfully completed.

Commands:

You will implement different commands such as INIT, CREATE, ATTEMPT, SUCCEED, FAIL, REFUND, and UPDATE to handle payments 
for different merchants and track their balances.

Merchant Balances: For each merchant, you track their balance. Once a payment intent is complete


(cut off ...) yment intent, transitioning it back to REQUIRES_ACTION.

REFUND <payment_intent_id>: Refunds the amount of a completed payment intent and decreases the merchant's balance.

UPDATE <payment_intent_id> <new_amount>: Updates the amount of a payment intent in REQUIRES_ACTION state.


=================================================================

### interval题, check prev endpoint and current startpoint<br>
- part 1: extend interval to lower/upper boundary
- part 2: extend interval to fill gaps between known intervals<br>
- part 3: skip proper sets<br>
- part 4: me (cut off)

====================================================
### 好像是要计算每一个store的fraud次数/概率。
- 第一问有一个store -&gt; industry map和一个industry, timestamp, fraud记录，然后要算每一个store有几次fraud，
如果有一个时刻超过一个industry threshold就mark as fraudulent account
- 第二问是不算fraud次数改算频率<br>
- 第三问是可以dispute然后撤回一个fraud记录。

=====================================
### 汇率题的变种，更复杂了

https://www.1point3acres.com/bbs/thread-1076365-1-1.html

https://www.1point3acres.com/bbs/thread-1078223-1-1.html


