---
title: Dynamic Programming - 单序列
category: Blog
tags:
  - DSA
  - DP
---

## Choices

### [509. (E) Fibnacci Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/fibonacci-number/description/)
The Fibonacci numbers, commonly denoted F(n) form a sequence, called the Fibonacci sequence, such that each number is the sum of the two preceding ones, starting from 0 and 1. That is,

F(0) = 0, F(1) = 1
F(n) = F(n - 1) + F(n - 2), for n > 1.

Given n, calculate F(n).


### [70. (E) Climbing Stairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/climbing-stairs/description/)
You are climbing a staircase. It takes n steps to reach the top.

Each time you can either climb 1 or 2 steps. In how many distinct ways can you climb to the top?


### [746. (E) Minimum Cost Climbing Stairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/min-cost-climbing-stairs/description/)
You are given an integer array cost where cost[i] is the cost of ith step on a staircase. Once you pay the cost, you can either climb one or two steps.

You can either start from the step with index 0, or the step with index 1.

Return the minimum cost to reach the top of the floor.


### [983. (M) Min Cost of Tickets](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-for-tickets/description/)
You have planned some train traveling one year in advance. The days of the year in which you will travel are given as an integer array days. Each day is an integer from 1 to 365.

Train tickets are sold in three different ways:

    a 1-day pass is sold for costs[0] dollars,
    a 7-day pass is sold for costs[1] dollars, and
    a 30-day pass is sold for costs[2] dollars.

The passes allow that many days of consecutive travel.

    For example, if we get a 7-day pass on day 2, then we can travel for 7 days: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.

Return the minimum number of dollars you need to travel every day in the given list of days.

### [91. (M) Decode Ways](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-ways/description/)

### [639. (M) Decode Ways II](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-ways-ii/description/)

### [264. (M) Ugly Number II](https://leetcode.com/problems/ugly-number-ii/description/)
An ugly number is a positive integer whose prime factors are limited to 2, 3, and 5.

Given an integer n, return the nth ugly number.


### [32. (H) Longest Valid Parenthese](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-valid-parentheses/description/)
Given a string containing just the characters '(' and ')', return the length of the longest valid (well-formed) parentheses
substring


### [198. (M) House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/description/)

### [213. (M) House Robber II](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber-ii/description/)

### [300. (M) Longest Increasing Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-increasing-subsequence/description/)
Given an integer array nums, return the length of the longest strictly increasing
subsequence


### [368. (M) Largest Divisible Subset](https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-divisible-subset/description/)
Given a set of distinct positive integers nums, return the largest subset answer such that every pair (answer[i], answer[j]) of elements in this subset satisfies:
- answer[i] % answer[j] == 0, or
- answer[j] % answer[i] == 0
If there are multiple solutions, return any of them.


### [1105. (M) Filling Bookcase Shelves](https://leetcode.com/problems/filling-bookcase-shelves/description/)
You are given an array books where books[i] = [thicknessi, heighti] indicates the thickness and height of the ith book. You are also given an integer shelfWidth.

We want to place these books in order onto bookcase shelves that have a total width shelfWidth.

We choose some of the books to place on this shelf such that the sum of their thickness is less than or equal to shelfWidth, then build another level of the shelf of the bookcase so that the total height of the bookcase has increased by the maximum height of the books we just put down. We repeat this process until there are no more books to place.

Note that at each step of the above process, the order of the books we place is the same order as the given sequence of books.
- For example, if we have an ordered list of 5 books, we might place the first and second book onto the first shelf, the third book on the second shelf, and the fourth and fifth book on the last shelf.

Return the minimum possible height that the total bookshelf can be after placing shelves in this manner.

## States

### [256. Paint House](https://leetcode.com/problems/paint-house/description/)
There are a row of n houses, each house can be painted with one of the three colors: red, blue or green. The cost of painting each house with a certain color is different. You have to paint all the houses such that no two adjacent houses have the same color.

The cost of painting each house with a certain color is represented by a n x 3 cost matrix. For example, costs[0][0] is the cost of painting house 0 with color red; costs[1][2] is the cost of painting house 1 with color green, and so on... Find the minimum cost to paint all houses.

Note:
All costs are positive integers.
```
Example:
Input: [[17,2,17],[16,16,5],[14,3,19]]
Output: 10
Explanation: Paint house 0 into blue, paint house 1 into green, paint house 2 into blue. 
             Minimum cost: 2 + 5 + 3 = 10.
```
### [265. (H) Paint House II](https://leetcode.com/problems/paint-house-ii/description/)

### [1289. (H) Minimum Falling Path Sum II](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-falling-path-sum-ii/description/)
Given an n x n integer matrix grid, return the minimum sum of a falling path with non-zero shifts.

A falling path with non-zero shifts is a choice of exactly one element from each row of grid such that no two elements chosen in adjacent rows are in the same column.



### N个房子， 涂白色或黑色的花费分别是A和B。要求不能连续3间涂同一颜色。 求最小花费。


### [376. (M) Wiggle Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/wiggle-subsequence/description/)


### [121. (E) Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/description/)

### [123. (H) Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock III](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-iii)
You are given an array prices where prices[i] is the price of a given stock on the ith day.

Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete at most two transactions.

Note: You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).

### [487. (M) Max Consecutive Ones II](https://leetcode.com/problems/max-consecutive-ones-ii/description/)
Given a binary array, find the maximum number of consecutive 1s in this array if you can flip at most one 0.

Follow up: What if the input numbers come in one by one as an infinite stream? In other words, you can't store all numbers coming from the stream as it's too large to hold in memory. Could you solve it efficiently?

### [1186. (M) Maximum Subarray Sum with One Deletion](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray-sum-with-one-deletion)
Given an array of integers, return the maximum sum for a non-empty subarray (contiguous elements) with at most one element deletion. In other words, you want to choose a subarray and optionally delete one element from it so that there is still at least one element left and the sum of the remaining elements is maximum possible.

Note that the subarray needs to be non-empty after deleting one element.


## Cuts
### [139. (M) Word Break](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break/description/)
Given a string s and a dictionary of strings wordDict, return true if s can be segmented into a space-separated sequence of one or more dictionary words.

Note that the same word in the dictionary may be reused multiple times in the segmentation.


### [140. (H) Word Break II](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break-ii/description/)
Given a string s and a dictionary of strings wordDict, add spaces in s to construct a sentence where each word is a valid dictionary word. Return all such possible sentences in any order.

Note that the same word in the dictionary may be reused multiple times in the segmentation.

### Game of 5 Powers
You are give a string 'S' that consits of characters '0' and '1' only. Return the smallest positive integer `K` such that it is possible to cut `S` into `K` pieces, 
each of them being a power of 5 (no leading zeros). If there is no such `K`, return `-1` instead.

e.g. S = "101101101" return 3 (101 is 5)

e.g. S = "1111101" return 1 (1111101 is 125)

e.g. S = "0000" return -1

e.g. S = "100" return -1




## Clasic

### 53. (E) Max Subarray

### 152. (M) Max Product Subarray


### 300. (M) LIS (??? Binary Search)


### 673. number of longest increase subsequence


### 674. (E) Longest Increase Subarray


### 1713. (H) Minimum Operation to Make a Subsequence
array `Target` with `distinct` integer, arr with duplication. Insert at any position make `arr` a subsequnce of `target`.














### 487. Maximum Consecutive Ones II


### 1186. Max Subarray Sum with 1 Deletion


### 368. Largest Divisible Subset



## Other

### [467. (M) Unique Substrings in wrapped around String](https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-substrings-in-wraparound-string/)
We define the string base to be the infinite wraparound string of "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz", so base will look like this:

- "...zabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcd....".

Given a string s, return the number of unique non-empty substrings of s are present in base.


### [940. (H) Distinct Subsequences II](https://leetcode.com/problems/distinct-subsequences-ii/description/)
Given a string s, return the number of distinct non-empty subsequences of s. Since the answer may be very large, 
return it modulo 109 + 7.

A subsequence of a string is a new string that is formed from the original string by deleting some (can be none) of the characters without disturbing the relative positions of the remaining characters. (i.e., "ace" is a subsequence of "abcde" while "aec" is not. 


### 1105. Filling Bookcase Shelves

